---
title: 'GServe: My Personal Server'
date: 2024-5-21
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
categories:
  - blog 
tags:
  - Server
  - Debian
  - Docker
  - Networking
  - Sysadmin
---

# Introduction/Background

## How it all started

I have always been a fan of self-hosting services. For years I have been running a Jellyfin server on my Windows laptop, we well as a VPN and DNS server on my Raspberry Pi. However, I have always wanted to have a dedicated server to host all my services, something that is powerful enough to run multiple services at once (in Docker containers) and low power enough to leave running in the basement in my house. 

I have been looking at various options for a while, including a Raspberry Pi 4, a NUC, and a [HP elitedesk 800 g4](https://support.hp.com/us-en/document/c06045012) that many tech YouTubers have been recommending. However, the price tag for a beefy enough machine was always a little too high for me (the cheapest option being $100+).

This is until recently my good friend/roommate GHigh (whose name is also George) broke his laptop screen and decided to buy a new one. He was kind enough to give me his old laptop, an HP ENVY x360 laptop (neofetch output below). 
  
```bash
       _,met$$$$$gg.          george@gserver
    ,g$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$P.       --------------
  ,g$$P"     """Y$$.".        OS: Debian GNU/Linux 12 (bookworm) x86_64
 ,$$P'              `$$$.     Host: HP ENVY x360 2-in-1 Laptop 15-ew0xxx
',$$P       ,ggs.     `$$b:   Kernel: 6.1.0-21-amd64
`d$$'     ,$P"'   .    $$$    Uptime: 5 mins
 $$P      d$'     ,    $$P    Packages: 1639 (dpkg)
 $$:      $$.   -    ,d$$'    Shell: bash 5.2.15
 $$;      Y$b._   _,d$P'      Resolution: 1920x1080
 Y$$.    `.`"Y$$$$P"'         Terminal: /dev/pts/0
 `$$b      "-.__              CPU: 12th Gen Intel i7-1255U (12) @ 4.700GHz
  `Y$$                        GPU: Intel Alder Lake-UP3 GT2 [Iris Xe Graphics]
   `Y$$.                      Memory: 1118MiB / 15704MiB
     `$$b.
       `Y$$b.
          `"Y$b._
              `"""
```

With the 12th Gen Intel i7 as well as Iris Xe Graphics, this laptop should be more than capable of running Jellyfin with multiple transcodes, as well as other services, which is my goal for this server. It should also be pretty power efficient since it's a laptop with recent hardware.

## The Plan

Currently I would like to run the following services on this server:

- Jellyfin
- VPN
- DNS

I would also like to have the following features:

- Reverse Proxy
- Dynamic DNS
- Monitoring

I'll be using Docker to run all these services, as it is the easiest way to manage multiple services on a single machine. As for operating system, I'll be using Debian as the host OS, as it is the most stable and secure OS for servers.

# Initial Setup

## Installing Debian

I was able to find a detailed instruction on how to install Debian on the laptop from [a guide from WikiHow](https://www.wikihow.com/Install-Debian). I followed it exactly and it worked perfectly. Looking back, one thing I might want to change is I wouldn't have install the Gnome desktop environment, as I won't be using it much and would like to save some resources. But it wouldn't be a big deal since I can always just disable DE from starting up.

## Basic Networking

Being a Networking Guru (many thanks to [Prof. Parviz Kermani](https://www.cics.umass.edu/people/kermani-parviz)), I know that it is important to assign a static IP address to the server, since that's how computers talk to each other. The command is simple:

```bash
sudo ip addr add <IP Address>/<Subnet Mask> dev <Interface>
```

Now I can just SSH into the server using the static IP address assigned and work on it remotely.

## Turning off the Screen

Since this is a server, I don't need the screen to be on all the time. I found [a very good guide](https://www.dwarmstrong.org/laptop-home-server/) from Daniel Wayne Armstrong's website, where he gave a few options. I tried the "vbetool" command in the "2.5 Turn off backlight" section, but it throws an error `Real mode call failed` and I am not able to turn off the screen. However, his suggestion to edit the `/etc/systemd/logind.conf` file and change all the `#HandleLidSwitch=suspend` to `HandleLidSwitch=ignore` worked for my purpose, which allowed me to close the lid to turn off the screen without suspending the system. 

## Preventing the Laptop from Sleeping

Another issue arose when I was editing this document, where the SSH session would disconnect after receiving a broadcast message `Broadcast message... The system will suspend now!`. This is annoying because I would like the server to be always on regardless of user activity. Luckily, after hours of Googling, I was able to find a solution from the [Debian Forum](https://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?t=156005), where they suggested to edit the `/etc/systemd/logind.conf` file and change the `#AllowSuspend=yes` to `AllowSuspend=no`. After this change the server hasn't gone to sleep since.

## Showing battery status

On the top right of Gnome Desktop there is a battery status icon as well as remaining battery percentage. Since I won't be using the desktop environment, I would like to have a way to check the battery status from the terminal. I found an article from the [Linux Journal](https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/how-check-battery-status-using-linux-command-line) that allows me to check the battery status using the `upower` command. I made a file called "battery" that allow me to check the battery status with a single command.

```bash
12:31 AM -> george at -bash in ~/useful
$ cat battery
#!/usr/bin/env sh
upower -i $(upower -e | grep BAT) | grep --color=never -E "state|to\ full|to\ empty|percentage"

12:38 AM -> george at -bash in ~/useful
$ ./battery
    state:               charging
    time to full:        3.2 minutes
    percentage:          99%
```

# Setting up Docker

This would be the next step

# Networking Shenanigans

This would be done after I return home and have access to a router and external IP.
